---
layout: post
title: "Why party?"
description: ""
category: 
tags: []
---
{% include JB/setup %}

The term 'partying' really irks the grumpy old man inside of me. A lot of people I know (in my age group) really like the idea of 'partying' as often as possible, and it's pretty bizarre.

### What do you mean?
I can understand that alcohol and other drugs can be a fun escape on occasion but as with many things the less often you use them the more fun you have when you do. Just like with work, the amount you put in *(glasses of beer)* is not directly proportionate to the reward you reap *(fun)* - you need to find the sweet spot. Much of growing up is about finding just that.<sup><a href="#note-1">[1]</a></sup>

The other thing about the term 'partying' which bothers me is the notion of celebration which comes with it - what are you celebrating on Saturday night at 5am, passed the fuck out on a park bench somewhere then proceeding to waste your whole Sunday feeling sick because you inundated your body with toxic shit all night yesterday? 

Drugs like alcohol increase the intensity of any emotions we happen to be feeling at the time - which is why we like to pop open a bottle of Champagne when celebrating some big event in our lives, your shitty week of drudge ending and your weekly two days of freedom beginning is not a significant event worthy of celebration.

_[Please watch this, right now.](http://youtu.be/LkKKTsJZ5kU)_

As much as this is satirical and unrealistic, it's actually fairly accurate in sentiment. It would fucking amaze you how many girls I know who are just like that. A conversation between them being something like:
> >I'm like so fucked up right now
> 
> >Yeah me too! So fucked 
> 
> >Oh my god, let's go do some shots!
>
> >Fuck yeah, definitely!
> <small>Fortitude Valley, some Thursday night.</small>

It's like a *who-can-lose-the-most-IQ-points-and-vomit* competition. It makes no sense at all to me, I'm genuinely confused by the motivation which drives this behavior.<sup><a href="#note-2">[2]</a></sup>

### What should I do instead, then?
You never have an incredibly memorable and gratifying experience which you will be telling stories about for days while getting hammered a the same old bar with the same old friends you always do. Things like that happen when you do something out of the ordinary by chance and a series of unlikely events happen, cumulating into something really funny/awesome/cool. If you want to have a really good time and engineer chance, go do something completely out of your comfort zone with some random-ass people. It might not be that great, but it also might be - and worst case scenario you have a funny story to tell your friends about how shitty the Norwegian folk band was that you saw with a bunch of middle aged people who turned up to that [meetup.com](http://meetup.com) group. 

All you need to do is make yourself available to opportunity when it arises, because there's *so much more going on than you realise*, and when you start taking these opportunities it will open your fucking mind. Next time you are stumped for ideas for what to do on the weekend, why don't you:
- Climb a mountain
- Go camping in the forest
- Take a dance class
- Have a picnic in the park
- Just go explore some random place you've never been to before

And when all else fails there's always [meetup.com](meetup.com), [craigslist](craigslist.org) and [twitter](twitter.com) to help you out.

### Grow up
Not being hung over multiple times a week is not synonymic with being old and boring - There is so much cool shit to do in the world, go do it.


#### Notes
<div id="note-1"><p><strong>[1]</strong> Which is why a 20 year old who gets drunk every other day is a university student, while a similar 40 year old is an alcoholic</p></div>

<div id="note-2"><p><strong>[2]</strong> Don't get me wrong - I'm a big fan of alcohol and certain other drugs, I can see the pleasure in enjoying a few drinks with some friends after a long week or smoking a joint while sitting in the shade of a big tree, having a picnic. It's the huge quantities and excessive frequency in which these things are used which confuses me.</p></div>